PRODDOCS-607: Metricflow feedback (#8567)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/build/about-metricflow.md

Reviewer: Since you used colons below, we can also change the mdash here for consistency

Author: ```suggestion
* [Entities](/docs/build/entities): The join keys of your semantic model (think of these as the traversal paths, or edges between semantic models).
```

### Semantic models 

Semantic models are the starting points of your data and correspond to models in your dbt project. You can create multiple semantic models from each model. Semantic models have metadata, like a data table, that define important information such as the table name and primary keys for the graph to be navigated correctly.

For a semantic model, there are three main pieces of metadata:

* [Entities](/docs/build/entities): The join keys of your semantic model (think of these as the traversal paths, or edges between semantic models).

> * [Dimensions](/docs/build/dimensions) &mdash; These are the ways you want to group or slice/dice your metrics.

Author: ```suggestion
* [Dimensions](/docs/build/dimensions): These are the ways you want to group or slice/dice your metrics.
```

### Semantic models 

Semantic models are the starting points of your data and correspond to models in your dbt project. You can create multiple semantic models from each model. Semantic models have metadata, like a data table, that define important information such as the table name and primary keys for the graph to be navigated correctly.

For a semantic model, there are three main pieces of metadata:

* [Entities](/docs/build/entities): The join keys of your semantic model (think of these as the traversal paths, or edges between semantic models).
* [Dimensions](/docs/build/dimensions): These are the ways you want to group or slice/dice your metrics.
<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.99">

> * [Measures](/docs/build/measures) &mdash; The aggregation functions that give you a numeric result and can be used to create your metrics.

Author: ```suggestion
* [Measures](/docs/build/measures): The aggregation functions that give you a numeric result and can be used to create your metrics.
```

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.99">

> - [Conversion](/docs/build/conversion): Tracks when a base event and a subsequent conversion event occurs for an entity within a set time period

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Conversion](/docs/build/conversion): Tracks when a base event and a subsequent conversion event occurs for an entity within a set time period.
```

> - [Conversion](/docs/build/conversion): Helps you track when a base event and a subsequent conversion event occurs for an entity within a set time period

Reviewer: The definitions aren't consistent in style and tone. Some start with "Helps you…", others use imperative language ("Create…"), and others are declarative. I recommend we use a single descriptive style for consistency. Punctuation is also inconsistent (some end with a period, and others don't).

I added suggested changes here, which can also be applied for lines 105-109

> - [Conversion](/docs/build/conversion): Helps you track when a base event and a subsequent conversion event occurs for an entity within a set time period

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Conversion](/docs/build/conversion): Tracks when a base event and a subsequent conversion event occurs for an entity within a set time period
```

> - [Cumulative](/docs/build/cumulative): Aggregates a <VersionBlock lastVersion="1.99">measure</VersionBlock><VersionBlock firstVersion="2.0">simple metric</VersionBlock> over a given window.

Reviewer: No need for the version blocks here
```suggestion
- [Cumulative](/docs/build/cumulative): Aggregates a measure over a given window.
```

> - [Cumulative](/docs/build/cumulative): Aggregates a <VersionBlock lastVersion="1.99">measure</VersionBlock><VersionBlock firstVersion="2.0">simple metric</VersionBlock> over a given window

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Cumulative](/docs/build/cumulative): Aggregates a <VersionBlock lastVersion="1.99">measure</VersionBlock><VersionBlock firstVersion="2.0">simple metric</VersionBlock> over a given window.
```

> - [Derived](/docs/build/derived): An expression of other metrics, which allows you to do calculations on top of metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Derived](/docs/build/derived): Defines a metric as an expression of other metrics, which allows you to do calculations on top of metrics.
```

> - [Ratio](/docs/build/ratio): Create a ratio out of two measures, like revenue per customer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Ratio](/docs/build/ratio): Defines a metric as the ratio of two measures, such as revenue per customer.
```

> - [Simple](/docs/build/simple): Metrics that refer directly to one measure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Simple](/docs/build/simple): Defines a metric that directly references a single measure.
```

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="2.0">

> - [Conversion](/docs/build/conversion): Tracks when a base event and a subsequent conversion event occurs for an entity within a set time period

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Conversion](/docs/build/conversion): Tracks when a base event and a subsequent conversion event occurs for an entity within a set time period.
```

> - [Cumulative](/docs/build/cumulative): Aggregates a simple metric over a given window

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Cumulative](/docs/build/cumulative): Aggregates a simple metric over a given window.
```

- [Derived](/docs/build/derived): Defines a metric as an expression of other metrics, which allows you to do calculations on top of metrics.

> - [Ratio](/docs/build/ratio): Defines a metric as the ratio of two measures, such as revenue per customer.

Reviewer: Measures are deprecated in the new spec
```suggestion
- [Ratio](/docs/build/ratio): Defines a metric as the ratio of two simple metrics, such as revenue per customer.
```

> - [Simple](/docs/build/simple): Defines a metric that directly references a single measure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Simple](/docs/build/simple): Defines a metric that directly references a single column expression within a semantic model.
```

To make this more concrete, consider the metric `order_total`, which is defined using the SQL expression:

`select sum(order_total) as order_total from orders` 

> This expression calculates the total revenue for all orders by summing the order_total column in the orders table. In a business setting, the metric `order_total` is often calculated according to different categories, such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This expression calculates the total revenue for all orders by summing the `order_total` column in the orders table. In a business setting, the metric `order_total` is often calculated according to different categories, such as:
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="example2" label="More dimensions example">

> Similarly, you can add additional dimensions like `is_food_order` to your semantic models to incorporate even more dimensions to slice and dice your revenue order_total. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, you can add additional dimensions like `is_food_order` to your semantic models to incorporate even more dimensions to slice and dice your revenue `order_total`. 
```

> Similarly, you could add additional dimensions like `is_food_order` to your semantic models to incorporate even more dimensions to slice and dice your revenue order_total. 

Author: ```suggestion
Similarly, you can add additional dimensions like `is_food_order` to your semantic models to incorporate even more dimensions to slice and dice your revenue order_total. 
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="example3" label="Advanced example">

> Imagine an even more complex metric is needed, such as the amount of money earned each day from food orders from returning customers. Without MetricFlow the data practitioner's original SQL might look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Imagine an even more complex metric is needed, such as the amount of money earned each day from food orders from returning customers. Without MetricFlow, the data practitioner's original SQL might look like this:
```

<DetailsToggle alt_header="Why is normalized data the ideal input?">

> MetricFlow is built to do denormalization efficiently. There are better tools to take raw datasets and accomplishing the various tasks required to build data consistency and organized data models. On the other end, by putting in denormalized data you are potentially creating redundancy which is technically challenging to manage, and you are reducing the potential granularity that MetricFlow can use to aggregate metrics.

Reviewer: I think this change introduces a grammar issue. The original keeps the verbs parallel an d changing it to "accomplishing" breaks that. I’d revert to "accomplish" here.

> MetricFlow is built to do denormalization efficiently. There are better tools to take raw datasets and accomplishing the various tasks required to build data consistency and organized data models. On the other end, by putting in denormalized data you are potentially creating redundancy which is technically challenging to manage, and you are reducing the potential granularity that MetricFlow can use to aggregate metrics.

Author: ```suggestion
MetricFlow is built to do denormalization efficiently. There are better tools to take raw datasets and accomplish the various tasks required to build data consistency and organized data models. On the other end, by putting in denormalized data you are potentially creating redundancy which is technically challenging to manage, and you are reducing the potential granularity that MetricFlow can use to aggregate metrics.
```

</DetailsToggle>
<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.99">
<DetailsToggle alt_header="Why not just make metrics the same as measures?">

> One principle of MetricFlow is to reduce the duplication of logic, sometimes referred to as Don't Repeat Yourself(DRY).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One principle of MetricFlow is to reduce the duplication of logic, sometimes referred to as Don't Repeat Yourself (DRY).
```

Many metrics are constructed from reused measures, and in some cases, they are constructed from measures from different semantic models. This allows for metrics to be built breadth-first (metrics that can stand alone) instead of depth-first (where you have multiple metrics acting as functions of each other).

Additionally, not all metrics are constructed off of measures. As an example, a conversion metric is likely defined as the presence or absence of an event record after some other event record.

</DetailsToggle>
</VersionBlock>
<DetailsToggle alt_header="How does the dbt Semantic Layer handle joins?">

> The dbt <Constant name="semantic_layer" />, powered by MetricFlow, builds joins based on the types of keys and parameters that are passed to entities. To better understand how joins are constructed see our documentation on [join types](/docs/build/join-logic#types-of-joins).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dbt <Constant name="semantic_layer" />, powered by MetricFlow, builds joins based on the types of keys and parameters that are passed to entities. To better understand how joins are constructed, see the documentation on [join types](/docs/build/join-logic#types-of-joins).
```
